feat: community docs implementation (#950)
asyncapi/website: pages/community/docs/getting-started/become-a-tsc-member.md

---

> title: 'Become a tsc member'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: 'Become a TSC member'
```

acronyms need to be capitalized 😸

weight: 1
---
# BECOME A  TSC MEMBER!

> In this article, you will learn how to become a member of the AsyncAPI Technical Steering Committee (TSC). You will know how to contribute, how to become a committer(maintainer), and realize the benefits of being a TSC member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this article, you will learn how to become a member of the AsyncAPI Technical Steering Committee (TSC). You will know how to contribute, how to become a committer (maintainer), and the benefits of being a TSC member.
```

The following areas are covered:
* What is the TSC?

> * Why TSC was formed?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Why was the TSC formed?
```

* Benefits of becoming a TSC member

> * How to become a TSC member?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to become a TSC member
```

This thought reads better as a statement :)

> If you prefer video, watch our [YouTube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uG_aLF9Z1F0) on how to become a TSC member.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer video, watch our [YouTube video on how to become a TSC member](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uG_aLF9Z1F0).
```

For accessibility, the hyperlink should be descriptive of what kind of video this is and suggest where the user will land if they click on this url; merely saying it's a YT vid isn't enough for a screenreader or search engine bots 😄✌🏽

Definition of common terms in this document:
* **Maintainers:** Are Contributors who have earned the ability to modify (“commit”) source code, documentation, or other technical artifacts in a project’s repository (“Committers”); They are also referred to as CODEOWNERS on [GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners)
* **Contributors:** Include anyone in the community that contributes code, documentation, pull request reviews, or other technical artifacts to the Project (“Contributors”);

> ## What is the Technical Steering Committee?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What is the TSC?
```

Since you **already defined this acronym in line 7** and **all other headers use the acronym** let's keep this consistent. 👍🏽

> TSC is a group of maintainers that contribute to the creation and maintenance of AsyncAPI Initiative.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TSC is a group of maintainers that contribute to the creation and maintenance of the AsyncAPI Initiative.
```

## Why the TSC was formed

> The concept of TSC was formed when AsyncAPI joined the Linux Foundation in 2021 to guarantee a system of open governance that promotes ownership and neutrality of all participants in the initiative. 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The concept of the TSC was formed when AsyncAPI joined the Linux Foundation in 2021 to guarantee a system of open governance that promotes ownership and neutrality of all participants in the initiative.
```

 
Some of the principles of the Linux Foundation partnership include:

* No founding members with special privileges
* Equality among all contributors
* Asynchronous decision making 
* Every maintainer is allowed to automatically become a TSC member

## Benefits of becoming a TSC member

As a TSC member you will enjoy the following benefits: 
 
* Recognition from AsyncAPI community
* Exposure of your portfolio to potential employers

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

removing miscellaneous space

* Involved in the voting process on topics concerning the entire Initiative
* Included in key decision-making for the Initiative. Especially related to finance. 

## How to become a TSC member

> Any maintainer can be a TSC member. In other words, to become a TSC member, you need to become a maintainer in one of the projects in the AsyncAPI Initiative. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any maintainer can become a TSC member. In other words, to become a TSC member, you need to become a maintainer in one of the projects of the AsyncAPI Initiative. 
```

> You can do it by doing at least one of below things in AsyncAPI Initiative GitHub organization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can become a maintainer by doing at least one of the following items within the AsyncAPI Initiative GitHub organization:
```

* Initiate a new repository/project and become its maintainer
* Donate existing repository/project and stay as its maintainer
* Support and commit to existing projects and be invited by other maintainers to join them as a maintainer

## Make your first contribution

> We know you are nervous to make your first contribution. In this section we guide you on steps to becoming a TSC member:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We know you are nervous about making your first contribution. In this section, we guide you on the steps towards becoming a TSC member:
```

1. Pick an issue
2. Open a pull request

> 3. Get it merged

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Get pull request merged
```

> 4. Get invitation to be a code owner

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Receive an invitation to become a code owner
```

5. Become a TSC member

**Step 1: Pick an Issue**

Here's how to select an issue to contribute to:
* Join existing PR reviews

> * Look for issues with [**good first issue** label](https://github.com/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aopen+org%3Aasyncapi+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Look for issues with a [**good first issue** label](https://github.com/issues?page=1&q=is%3Aopen+org%3Aasyncapi+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22)
```

> * Join [AsyncAPI Slack community](https://asyncapi.com/slack-invite) and join the `#11_how-to-contribute` channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Join the [AsyncAPI Slack community workspace](https://asyncapi.com/slack-invite) and the `#11_how-to-contribute` channel
```

> * Ask maintainers to do a public live stream called **Let's talk about contributing** where they can explain specific part of the project where you want to contribute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ask maintainers to do a public live stream called **Let's talk about contributing** where they can explain a specific part of the project where you want to contribute
```

**Step 2: Open a pull request**

> To open a pull request successfully, follow our [Git workflows](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/git-workflow.md) contributors guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To open a pull request successfully, follow our [Git workflows contributors guide](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/git-workflow.md).
```

Use the following steps to open your pull request:
1. Configure a fork
2. Work on it locally 

> 3. Write an appropriate PR title using [conventional commits specification](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#conventional-commits)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Write an appropriate PR title using the [conventional commits specification](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#conventional-commits)
```

> 4. Test PR against Github checks-ensure they all pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Test your PR against Github checks to ensure they all pass
```

> **Step 3: Get it merged**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Step 3: Get pull request merged**
```

Always avoid using antecedents without defining them clearly in each sentence 😄✌🏽

> After making a pull request, allow the maintainers to review your PR. In case no one is alerted to review your PR, feel free to bring the issue to the maintainer's attention by either pinging them on Slack or GitHub. We are sometimes delayed in response for many different reasons, no one intention is to ignore you 🙏🏼 .

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After making a pull request, allow the maintainers to review your PR. If no one is alerted to review your PR, feel free to bring the issue to the maintainer's attention by pinging them on Slack or GitHub. We sometimes delay in response for many reasons; no one intends to ignore you 🙏🏼 .
```

Make sure all your PR checks pass (turn to green) to ensure your PR is merged quickly.   

**Step 4: Invitation to become a maintainer**

> After making several contributions to AsyncAPI, maintainers will recognize you. You will then receive an invitation to join the TSC. Look at [this example from the website repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/890).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After making several contributions to AsyncAPI, maintainers will recognize you. You will then receive an invitation to join the TSC. Look at this [maintainer invitation example from the website repository](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/pull/890).
```

**Step 5: Become a TSC member**

Once you become a maintainer in one of the repositories, you can apply to join a group of [TSC members](https://www.asyncapi.com/community/tsc).

> Open a PR in **community** repository to add your name to [the list of members](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/TSC_MEMBERS.json). Specify your name, repositories that you maintain and if you are sponsored by some company. For example [see this PR that introduced one of new members](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/277).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open a PR in the **community** repository to add your name to the [list of TSC members](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/TSC_MEMBERS.json). Specify your name, repositories that you maintain, and if you are sponsored by some company. For example [see this PR that introduced one of the new TSC members](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/277).
```

> Joining TSC is something that you are allowed to do as a maintainer by default, as described in [charter signed with Linux Foundation when AsyncAPI joined the foundation](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CHARTER.md). It is not a subject that other TSC members vote on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Joining the TSC is something that you are allowed to do as a maintainer by default, as described in the [charter signed with the Linux Foundation when AsyncAPI joined the foundation](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/blob/master/CHARTER.md). It is not a subject that other TSC members vote on. 
```
